docs/advanced/global_configuration.md, before:

# Global configuration

!!! abstract "Configuring mini"

    * This guide shows how to configure the `mini` agent's global settings (API keys, default model, etc.).
      Basically anything that is set as environment variables or similar.
    * You should already be familiar with the [quickstart guide](../quickstart.md).
    * For more agent specific settings, see the [yaml configuration file guide](yaml_configuration.md).

!!! tip "Setting up models"

    Setting up models is also covered in the [quickstart guide](../quickstart.md).

## Setting global configuration

All global configuration can be either set as environment variables, or in the `.env` file (the exact location is printed when you run `mini`).
Environment variables take precedence over variables set in the `.env` file.

We provide several helper functions to update the global configuration.

For example, to set the default model and API keys, you can run:

```bash
mini-extra config setup
```

or to update specific settings:

```
mini-extra config set KEY VALUE
# e.g.,
mini-extra config set MSWEA_MODEL_NAME "anthropic/claude-sonnet-4-5-20250929"
mini-extra config set MSWEA_MODEL_API_KEY "sk-..."
```

or to unset a key:

```bash
mini-extra config unset KEY
# e.g.,
mini-extra config unset MSWEA_MODEL_API_KEY
```

You can also edit the `.env` file directly and we provide a helper function for that:

```bash
mini-extra config edit
```

To set environment variables (recommended for temporary experimentation or API keys):

```bash
export KEY="value"
# windows:
setx KEY "value"
```

## Models and keys

!!! tip "See also"

    Read the [quickstart guide](../quickstart.md) first—it already covers most of this.

```bash
# Default model name
# (default: not set)
MSWEA_MODEL_NAME="anthropic/claude-sonnet-4-5-20250929"

# Default API key
# (default: not set)
MSWEA_MODEL_API_KEY="sk-..."
```

To register extra models to litellm (see [local models](../models/local_models.md) for more details), you can either specify the path in the agent file, or set

```bash
LITELLM_MODEL_REGISTRY_PATH="/path/to/your/model/registry.json"
```

Global cost limits:

```bash
# Global limit on number of model calls (0 = no limit)
# (default: 0)
MSWEA_GLOBAL_CALL_LIMIT="100"

# Global cost limit in dollars (0 = no limit)
# (default: 0)
MSWEA_GLOBAL_COST_LIMIT="10.00"
```

## Default config files

```bash
# Set a custom directory for agent config files in addition to the builtin ones
# This allows to specify them by names
MSWEA_CONFIG_DIR="/path/to/your/own/config/dir"

# Config path for mini run script
# (default: package_dir / "config" / "mini.yaml")
MSWEA_MINI_CONFIG_PATH="/path/to/your/own/config"

# Config path for GitHub issue script
# (default: package_dir / "config" / "github_issue.yaml")
MSWEA_GITHUB_CONFIG_PATH="/path/to/your/github/config.yaml"

# Custom style path for trajectory inspector
# (default: package_dir / "config" / "mini.tcss")
MSWEA_INSPECTOR_STYLE_PATH="/path/to/your/inspector/style.tcss"

# Custom style path for mini textual interface
# (default: package_dir / "config" / "mini.tcss")
MSWEA_MINI_STYLE_PATH="/path/to/your/mini/style.tcss"
```

### Settings for environments

```bash
# Path/name to the singularity/apptainer executable
# (default: "singularity")
MSWEA_SINGULARITY_EXECUTABLE="singularity"

# Path/name to the docker executable
# (default: "docker")
MSWEA_DOCKER_EXECUTABLE="docker"

# Path/name to the bubblewrap executable
# (default: "bwrap")
MSWEA_BUBBLEWRAP_EXECUTABLE="bwrap"
```

## Default run files

```bash
# Default run script entry point for the main CLI
# (default: "minisweagent.run.mini")
MSWEA_DEFAULT_RUN="minisweagent.run.mini"

# Set to true to use visual mode by default for the main CLI
# (default: false)
MSWEA_VISUAL_MODE_DEFAULT="false"
```

{% include-markdown "_footer.md" %}

Commit message:

Enh: Configure number of retries for model (#576)

docs/advanced/global_configuration.md, after:

# Global configuration

!!! abstract "Configuring mini"

    * This guide shows how to configure the `mini` agent's global settings (API keys, default model, etc.).
      Basically anything that is set as environment variables or similar.
    * You should already be familiar with the [quickstart guide](../quickstart.md).
    * For more agent specific settings, see the [yaml configuration file guide](yaml_configuration.md).

!!! tip "Setting up models"

    Setting up models is also covered in the [quickstart guide](../quickstart.md).

## Setting global configuration

All global configuration can be either set as environment variables, or in the `.env` file (the exact location is printed when you run `mini`).
Environment variables take precedence over variables set in the `.env` file.

We provide several helper functions to update the global configuration.

For example, to set the default model and API keys, you can run:

```bash
mini-extra config setup
```

or to update specific settings:

```
mini-extra config set KEY VALUE
# e.g.,
mini-extra config set MSWEA_MODEL_NAME "anthropic/claude-sonnet-4-5-20250929"
mini-extra config set MSWEA_MODEL_API_KEY "sk-..."
```

or to unset a key:

```bash
mini-extra config unset KEY
# e.g.,
mini-extra config unset MSWEA_MODEL_API_KEY
```

You can also edit the `.env` file directly and we provide a helper function for that:

```bash
mini-extra config edit
```

To set environment variables (recommended for temporary experimentation or API keys):

```bash
export KEY="value"
# windows:
setx KEY "value"
```

## Models and keys

!!! tip "See also"

    Read the [quickstart guide](../quickstart.md) first—it already covers most of this.

```bash
# Default model name
# (default: not set)
MSWEA_MODEL_NAME="anthropic/claude-sonnet-4-5-20250929"

# Default API key
# (default: not set)
MSWEA_MODEL_API_KEY="sk-..."
```

To register extra models to litellm (see [local models](../models/local_models.md) for more details), you can either specify the path in the agent file, or set

```bash
LITELLM_MODEL_REGISTRY_PATH="/path/to/your/model/registry.json"
```

Global cost limits:

```bash
# Global limit on number of model calls (0 = no limit)
# (default: 0)
MSWEA_GLOBAL_CALL_LIMIT="100"

# Global cost limit in dollars (0 = no limit)
# (default: 0)
MSWEA_GLOBAL_COST_LIMIT="10.00"

# Number of retry attempts for model API calls
# (default: 10)
MSWEA_MODEL_RETRY_STOP_AFTER_ATTEMPT="10"
```

## Default config files

```bash
# Set a custom directory for agent config files in addition to the builtin ones
# This allows to specify them by names
MSWEA_CONFIG_DIR="/path/to/your/own/config/dir"

# Config path for mini run script
# (default: package_dir / "config" / "mini.yaml")
MSWEA_MINI_CONFIG_PATH="/path/to/your/own/config"

# Config path for GitHub issue script
# (default: package_dir / "config" / "github_issue.yaml")
MSWEA_GITHUB_CONFIG_PATH="/path/to/your/github/config.yaml"

# Custom style path for trajectory inspector
# (default: package_dir / "config" / "mini.tcss")
MSWEA_INSPECTOR_STYLE_PATH="/path/to/your/inspector/style.tcss"

# Custom style path for mini textual interface
# (default: package_dir / "config" / "mini.tcss")
MSWEA_MINI_STYLE_PATH="/path/to/your/mini/style.tcss"
```

### Settings for environments

```bash
# Path/name to the singularity/apptainer executable
# (default: "singularity")
MSWEA_SINGULARITY_EXECUTABLE="singularity"

# Path/name to the docker executable
# (default: "docker")
MSWEA_DOCKER_EXECUTABLE="docker"

# Path/name to the bubblewrap executable
# (default: "bwrap")
MSWEA_BUBBLEWRAP_EXECUTABLE="bwrap"
```

## Default run files

```bash
# Default run script entry point for the main CLI
# (default: "minisweagent.run.mini")
MSWEA_DEFAULT_RUN="minisweagent.run.mini"

# Set to true to use visual mode by default for the main CLI
# (default: false)
MSWEA_VISUAL_MODE_DEFAULT="false"
```

{% include-markdown "_footer.md" %}
